Documentation/media/uapi/v4l/pixfmt-compressed.rst, before:

.. Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this
.. document under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License,
.. Version 1.1 or any later version published by the Free Software
.. Foundation, with no Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts
.. and no Back-Cover Texts. A copy of the license is included at
.. Documentation/media/uapi/fdl-appendix.rst.
..
.. TODO: replace it to GFDL-1.1-or-later WITH no-invariant-sections

******************
Compressed Formats
******************


.. _compressed-formats:

.. tabularcolumns:: |p{6.6cm}|p{2.2cm}|p{8.7cm}|

.. flat-table:: Compressed Image Formats
    :header-rows:  1
    :stub-columns: 0
    :widths:       3 1 4

    * - Identifier
      - Code
      - Details
    * .. _V4L2-PIX-FMT-JPEG:

      - ``V4L2_PIX_FMT_JPEG``
      - 'JPEG'
      - TBD. See also :ref:`VIDIOC_G_JPEGCOMP <VIDIOC_G_JPEGCOMP>`,
	:ref:`VIDIOC_S_JPEGCOMP <VIDIOC_G_JPEGCOMP>`.
    * .. _V4L2-PIX-FMT-MPEG:

      - ``V4L2_PIX_FMT_MPEG``
      - 'MPEG'
      - MPEG multiplexed stream. The actual format is determined by
	extended control ``V4L2_CID_MPEG_STREAM_TYPE``, see
	:ref:`mpeg-control-id`.
    * .. _V4L2-PIX-FMT-H264:

      - ``V4L2_PIX_FMT_H264``
      - 'H264'
      - H264 video elementary stream with start codes.
    * .. _V4L2-PIX-FMT-H264-NO-SC:

      - ``V4L2_PIX_FMT_H264_NO_SC``
      - 'AVC1'
      - H264 video elementary stream without start codes.
    * .. _V4L2-PIX-FMT-H264-MVC:

      - ``V4L2_PIX_FMT_H264_MVC``
      - 'M264'
      - H264 MVC video elementary stream.
    * .. _V4L2-PIX-FMT-H264-SLICE:

      - ``V4L2_PIX_FMT_H264_SLICE``
      - 'S264'
      - H264 parsed slice data, without the start code and as
	extracted from the H264 bitstream.  This format is adapted for
	stateless video decoders that implement an H264 pipeline
	(using the :ref:`mem2mem` and :ref:`media-request-api`).
	Metadata associated with the frame to decode are required to
	be passed through the ``V4L2_CID_MPEG_VIDEO_H264_SPS``,
	``V4L2_CID_MPEG_VIDEO_H264_PPS``,
	``V4L2_CID_MPEG_VIDEO_H264_SCALING_MATRIX``,
	``V4L2_CID_MPEG_VIDEO_H264_SLICE_PARAMS`` and
	``V4L2_CID_MPEG_VIDEO_H264_DECODE_PARAMS`` controls.  See the
	:ref:`associated Codec Control IDs <v4l2-mpeg-h264>`.  Exactly
	one output and one capture buffer must be provided for use
	with this pixel format. The output buffer must contain the
	appropriate number of macroblocks to decode a full
	corresponding frame to the matching capture buffer.

	.. note::

	   This format is not yet part of the public kernel API and it
	   is expected to change.

    * .. _V4L2-PIX-FMT-H263:

      - ``V4L2_PIX_FMT_H263``
      - 'H263'
      - H263 video elementary stream.
    * .. _V4L2-PIX-FMT-MPEG1:

      - ``V4L2_PIX_FMT_MPEG1``
      - 'MPG1'
      - MPEG1 video elementary stream.
    * .. _V4L2-PIX-FMT-MPEG2:

      - ``V4L2_PIX_FMT_MPEG2``
      - 'MPG2'
      - MPEG2 video elementary stream.
    * .. _V4L2-PIX-FMT-MPEG2-SLICE:

      - ``V4L2_PIX_FMT_MPEG2_SLICE``
      - 'MG2S'
      - MPEG-2 parsed slice data, as extracted from the MPEG-2 bitstream.
	This format is adapted for stateless video decoders that implement a
	MPEG-2 pipeline (using the :ref:`mem2mem` and :ref:`media-request-api`).
	Metadata associated with the frame to decode is required to be passed
	through the ``V4L2_CID_MPEG_VIDEO_MPEG2_SLICE_PARAMS`` control and
	quantization matrices can optionally be specified through the
	``V4L2_CID_MPEG_VIDEO_MPEG2_QUANTIZATION`` control.
	See the :ref:`associated Codec Control IDs <v4l2-mpeg-mpeg2>`.
	Exactly one output and one capture buffer must be provided for use with
	this pixel format. The output buffer must contain the appropriate number
	of macroblocks to decode a full corresponding frame to the matching
	capture buffer.
    * .. _V4L2-PIX-FMT-MPEG4:

      - ``V4L2_PIX_FMT_MPEG4``
      - 'MPG4'
      - MPEG4 video elementary stream.
    * .. _V4L2-PIX-FMT-XVID:

      - ``V4L2_PIX_FMT_XVID``
      - 'XVID'
      - Xvid video elementary stream.
    * .. _V4L2-PIX-FMT-VC1-ANNEX-G:

      - ``V4L2_PIX_FMT_VC1_ANNEX_G``
      - 'VC1G'
      - VC1, SMPTE 421M Annex G compliant stream.
    * .. _V4L2-PIX-FMT-VC1-ANNEX-L:

      - ``V4L2_PIX_FMT_VC1_ANNEX_L``
      - 'VC1L'
      - VC1, SMPTE 421M Annex L compliant stream.
    * .. _V4L2-PIX-FMT-VP8:

      - ``V4L2_PIX_FMT_VP8``
      - 'VP80'
      - VP8 video elementary stream.
    * .. _V4L2-PIX-FMT-VP8-FRAME:

      - ``V4L2_PIX_FMT_VP8_FRAME``
      - 'VP8F'
      - VP8 parsed frame, as extracted from the container.
	This format is adapted for stateless video decoders that implement a
	VP8 pipeline (using the :ref:`mem2mem` and :ref:`media-request-api`).
	Metadata associated with the frame to decode is required to be passed
	through the ``V4L2_CID_MPEG_VIDEO_VP8_FRAME_HEADER`` control.
	See the :ref:`associated Codec Control IDs <v4l2-mpeg-vp8>`.
	Exactly one output and one capture buffer must be provided for use with
	this pixel format. The output buffer must contain the appropriate number
	of macroblocks to decode a full corresponding frame to the matching
	capture buffer.

	.. note::

	   This format is not yet part of the public kernel API and it
	   is expected to change.

    * .. _V4L2-PIX-FMT-VP9:

      - ``V4L2_PIX_FMT_VP9``
      - 'VP90'
      - VP9 video elementary stream.
    * .. _V4L2-PIX-FMT-HEVC:

      - ``V4L2_PIX_FMT_HEVC``
      - 'HEVC'
      - HEVC/H.265 video elementary stream.
    * .. _V4L2-PIX-FMT-FWHT:

      - ``V4L2_PIX_FMT_FWHT``
      - 'FWHT'
      - Video elementary stream using a codec based on the Fast Walsh Hadamard
        Transform. This codec is implemented by the vicodec ('Virtual Codec')
	driver. See the codec-fwht.h header for more details.
    * .. _V4L2-PIX-FMT-FWHT-STATELESS:

      - ``V4L2_PIX_FMT_FWHT_STATELESS``
      - 'SFWH'
      - Same format as V4L2_PIX_FMT_FWHT but requires stateless codec implementation.
	See the :ref:`associated Codec Control IDs <v4l2-mpeg-fwht>`.

Commit message:

media: uapi: h264: Add the concept of decoding mode
Some stateless decoders don't support per-slice decoding granularity
(or at least not in a way that would make them efficient or easy to use).

Expose a menu to control the supported decoding modes. Drivers are
allowed to support only one decoding but they can support both too.

To fully specify the decoding operation, we need to introduce
a start_byte_offset, to indicate where slices start.

Signed-off-by: Boris Brezillon <boris.brezillon@collabora.com>
Reviewed-by: Paul Kocialkowski <paul.kocialkowski@bootlin.com>
Tested-by: Philipp Zabel <p.zabel@pengutronix.de>
Signed-off-by: Hans Verkuil <hverkuil-cisco@xs4all.nl>

Documentation/media/uapi/v4l/pixfmt-compressed.rst, after:

.. Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this
.. document under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License,
.. Version 1.1 or any later version published by the Free Software
.. Foundation, with no Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts
.. and no Back-Cover Texts. A copy of the license is included at
.. Documentation/media/uapi/fdl-appendix.rst.
..
.. TODO: replace it to GFDL-1.1-or-later WITH no-invariant-sections

******************
Compressed Formats
******************


.. _compressed-formats:

.. tabularcolumns:: |p{6.6cm}|p{2.2cm}|p{8.7cm}|

.. flat-table:: Compressed Image Formats
    :header-rows:  1
    :stub-columns: 0
    :widths:       3 1 4

    * - Identifier
      - Code
      - Details
    * .. _V4L2-PIX-FMT-JPEG:

      - ``V4L2_PIX_FMT_JPEG``
      - 'JPEG'
      - TBD. See also :ref:`VIDIOC_G_JPEGCOMP <VIDIOC_G_JPEGCOMP>`,
	:ref:`VIDIOC_S_JPEGCOMP <VIDIOC_G_JPEGCOMP>`.
    * .. _V4L2-PIX-FMT-MPEG:

      - ``V4L2_PIX_FMT_MPEG``
      - 'MPEG'
      - MPEG multiplexed stream. The actual format is determined by
	extended control ``V4L2_CID_MPEG_STREAM_TYPE``, see
	:ref:`mpeg-control-id`.
    * .. _V4L2-PIX-FMT-H264:

      - ``V4L2_PIX_FMT_H264``
      - 'H264'
      - H264 video elementary stream with start codes.
    * .. _V4L2-PIX-FMT-H264-NO-SC:

      - ``V4L2_PIX_FMT_H264_NO_SC``
      - 'AVC1'
      - H264 video elementary stream without start codes.
    * .. _V4L2-PIX-FMT-H264-MVC:

      - ``V4L2_PIX_FMT_H264_MVC``
      - 'M264'
      - H264 MVC video elementary stream.
    * .. _V4L2-PIX-FMT-H264-SLICE:

      - ``V4L2_PIX_FMT_H264_SLICE``
      - 'S264'
      - H264 parsed slice data, without the start code and as
	extracted from the H264 bitstream.  This format is adapted for
	stateless video decoders that implement an H264 pipeline
	(using the :ref:`mem2mem` and :ref:`media-request-api`).
	This pixelformat has a modifier that must be set at least once
	through the ``V4L2_CID_MPEG_VIDEO_H264_DECODE_MODE`` control.
	In addition, metadata associated with the frame to decode are
	required to be passed through the ``V4L2_CID_MPEG_VIDEO_H264_SPS``,
	``V4L2_CID_MPEG_VIDEO_H264_PPS``,
	``V4L2_CID_MPEG_VIDEO_H264_SCALING_MATRIX``,
	``V4L2_CID_MPEG_VIDEO_H264_SLICE_PARAMS`` and
	``V4L2_CID_MPEG_VIDEO_H264_DECODE_PARAMS`` controls.  See the
	:ref:`associated Codec Control IDs <v4l2-mpeg-h264>`.  Exactly
	one output and one capture buffer must be provided for use
	with this pixel format. The output buffer must contain the
	appropriate number of macroblocks to decode a full
	corresponding frame to the matching capture buffer.

	.. note::

	   This format is not yet part of the public kernel API and it
	   is expected to change.

    * .. _V4L2-PIX-FMT-H263:

      - ``V4L2_PIX_FMT_H263``
      - 'H263'
      - H263 video elementary stream.
    * .. _V4L2-PIX-FMT-MPEG1:

      - ``V4L2_PIX_FMT_MPEG1``
      - 'MPG1'
      - MPEG1 video elementary stream.
    * .. _V4L2-PIX-FMT-MPEG2:

      - ``V4L2_PIX_FMT_MPEG2``
      - 'MPG2'
      - MPEG2 video elementary stream.
    * .. _V4L2-PIX-FMT-MPEG2-SLICE:

      - ``V4L2_PIX_FMT_MPEG2_SLICE``
      - 'MG2S'
      - MPEG-2 parsed slice data, as extracted from the MPEG-2 bitstream.
	This format is adapted for stateless video decoders that implement a
	MPEG-2 pipeline (using the :ref:`mem2mem` and :ref:`media-request-api`).
	Metadata associated with the frame to decode is required to be passed
	through the ``V4L2_CID_MPEG_VIDEO_MPEG2_SLICE_PARAMS`` control and
	quantization matrices can optionally be specified through the
	``V4L2_CID_MPEG_VIDEO_MPEG2_QUANTIZATION`` control.
	See the :ref:`associated Codec Control IDs <v4l2-mpeg-mpeg2>`.
	Exactly one output and one capture buffer must be provided for use with
	this pixel format. The output buffer must contain the appropriate number
	of macroblocks to decode a full corresponding frame to the matching
	capture buffer.
    * .. _V4L2-PIX-FMT-MPEG4:

      - ``V4L2_PIX_FMT_MPEG4``
      - 'MPG4'
      - MPEG4 video elementary stream.
    * .. _V4L2-PIX-FMT-XVID:

      - ``V4L2_PIX_FMT_XVID``
      - 'XVID'
      - Xvid video elementary stream.
    * .. _V4L2-PIX-FMT-VC1-ANNEX-G:

      - ``V4L2_PIX_FMT_VC1_ANNEX_G``
      - 'VC1G'
      - VC1, SMPTE 421M Annex G compliant stream.
    * .. _V4L2-PIX-FMT-VC1-ANNEX-L:

      - ``V4L2_PIX_FMT_VC1_ANNEX_L``
      - 'VC1L'
      - VC1, SMPTE 421M Annex L compliant stream.
    * .. _V4L2-PIX-FMT-VP8:

      - ``V4L2_PIX_FMT_VP8``
      - 'VP80'
      - VP8 video elementary stream.
    * .. _V4L2-PIX-FMT-VP8-FRAME:

      - ``V4L2_PIX_FMT_VP8_FRAME``
      - 'VP8F'
      - VP8 parsed frame, as extracted from the container.
	This format is adapted for stateless video decoders that implement a
	VP8 pipeline (using the :ref:`mem2mem` and :ref:`media-request-api`).
	Metadata associated with the frame to decode is required to be passed
	through the ``V4L2_CID_MPEG_VIDEO_VP8_FRAME_HEADER`` control.
	See the :ref:`associated Codec Control IDs <v4l2-mpeg-vp8>`.
	Exactly one output and one capture buffer must be provided for use with
	this pixel format. The output buffer must contain the appropriate number
	of macroblocks to decode a full corresponding frame to the matching
	capture buffer.

	.. note::

	   This format is not yet part of the public kernel API and it
	   is expected to change.

    * .. _V4L2-PIX-FMT-VP9:

      - ``V4L2_PIX_FMT_VP9``
      - 'VP90'
      - VP9 video elementary stream.
    * .. _V4L2-PIX-FMT-HEVC:

      - ``V4L2_PIX_FMT_HEVC``
      - 'HEVC'
      - HEVC/H.265 video elementary stream.
    * .. _V4L2-PIX-FMT-FWHT:

      - ``V4L2_PIX_FMT_FWHT``
      - 'FWHT'
      - Video elementary stream using a codec based on the Fast Walsh Hadamard
        Transform. This codec is implemented by the vicodec ('Virtual Codec')
	driver. See the codec-fwht.h header for more details.
    * .. _V4L2-PIX-FMT-FWHT-STATELESS:

      - ``V4L2_PIX_FMT_FWHT_STATELESS``
      - 'SFWH'
      - Same format as V4L2_PIX_FMT_FWHT but requires stateless codec implementation.
	See the :ref:`associated Codec Control IDs <v4l2-mpeg-fwht>`.
